Hi there in this video I'm going to explain
how to choose the best cost function,
software, minimizer, Jacobian,
and Hessian for your data set.
I'm just going to run through the
FitBenchmarking options available to you.
There are four cost functions,
18 software options, three of
which are automatically installed,
and two of which are default options.
The minimizers available to you will
depend on the software you've chosen.
The default set of minimizers
for that solver will be run,
unless alternative minimizer
options have been set.
4 categories Jacobian.
And four categories of Hessian.
Here are some general hints and tips
for choosing your cost function.
The Hellinger non linear least
squares and Poisson cost functions
assume all data is positive,
so do not use these cost functions if
your data contains negative values.
The weighted nonlinear least squares
cost function is useful when the
observations are not equally reliable.
Here are some hints and tips
for choosing your software.
Do not use the global optimization
software without specifying a range.
Least squares software e.g. scipy_ls does
not work with the poison cost function.
This is because Poisson is not
a least squares cost function.
So solvers which rely on the ls
formulation won't work with them.
I'm now going to outline a possible
method for choosing your options.
This is by no means the only method.
If you have not already chosen your cost function,
run your problem set with several of the
cost functions and the other default options.
If you've already chosen your cost function,
run your problem set with the
default options and this cost function.
Based on this,
try the best one or two cost functions,
the best one or two softwares,
with the best minimizer for each software,
up to a maximum of five in total,
all Jacobians and all Hessians.
From the results of this you can
then choose the best combination.
You might then like to compare
this to the Poisson cost function.
And you could then compare
minimizers of the same type as the
best minimizer you have chosen,
but for different software.
I'm now going to go through a case study of
the SASView simple shapes 1D problem set.
Based on the preliminary run with bumps,
scipy and scipy_ls software,
and three of the four cost functions,
we can see, from the table here,
that it looks like the cost functions nlls
and weighted nlls are the best.
In this diagram, the cost functions
are separated by the green lines.
And the softwares are separated
by the black lines.
As you can see, the Hellinger
cost function has lots of purple,
so it is not the best.
We could choose our cost
function from this graph here,
which shows different cost
functions in different colours.
The strongest line for
each colour is the best
minimizer for that cost function.
We will also try our problem
set with the software bumps
and scipy_ls, as scipy has
more purple than the others.
We will choose to try two of the
three minimizers for scipy_ls,
and two of the four minimizers for bumps.
Try it with all Jacobians and all Hessians.
Our initial conclusion based on
the table here and the options we
chose based on the previous slide,
is that weighted nlls
is better than the nlls cost
function based on this top row.
We must be careful when comparing
between cost functions as the
colours are not comparable.
We may wish to look at the graphs on the
left to help us compare cost functions.
The different cost functions
again are in different colours.
In the graph on the left,
you might think that the purple
cost function is the best.
However, in the graph on the
right, for a different problem,
the red cost function looks to be the best.
Hence it is not always a clear choice.
We can see from the table that the
numdifftools Jacobian is not a good
choice as there is lots of purple here.
So you might decide
that the best combination is the
weighted non linear least squares
cost function, with the bumps software,
with the scipy least squares minimizer
and the default Jacobian which is
indicated in this turquoise box here.
You might then compare it to
the Poisson cost function.
Unfortunately we have
to use different minimizers,
as the least squares
minimizers don't work with
the Poisson cost function.
As you can see, all minimizers here
have at least one purple problem.
Therefore nlls is still
the best cost function.
We could then compare minimizers
of the same algorithm type,
but for different software.
So here we have minimizers of
the same algorithm type as the
one we have previously chosen,
which is in bold here.
The best combination,
as you can see outlined in the
turquoise box, remains the same.
I will now go through another case study, on
the NIST average difficulty problem set.
So based on a preliminary run with bumps,
scipy, scipy_ls software,
and three of the four cost functions,
based on the table below,
we might choose to try nlls and
weighted nlls cost functions,
as again the Hellinger cost
function has lots of purple.
We could also look at the graph here,
however, as you can see, it is a judgment
call as to which cost function is best,
and as you know your data best,
you might know which cost
function you would prefer,
however, it is not necessarily clear.
You could then try software scipy_ls
and bumps, as again there is lots of
purple here in the middle with scipy.
Try three or three minimizers
for the scipy_ls software,
and one of the four for bumps.
Try all Jacobians and all Hessians.
Our initial conclusion is that both
cost functions give similar results.
As you can see from the table
here, again, it is hard to tell
which cost function is best.
Clearly numdifftools Jacobian is not a
good choice as there is lots of purple here.
In the end, we might choose
nlls cost function, scipy_ls software,
lm-scipy minimizer and the analytic Jacobian,
which is outlined here in the
turquoise box as our first choice.
We could then compare to the
Poisson cost function. However, again,
all Poisson minimizers had at
least one purple problem, so nlls
is still the best cost function.
We could then compare minimizers of the
same type but for different software.
So here we have the minimizers of the same type
as the lm-scipy which
we had already chosen.
Again, the best combination is here
in turquoise and it remains the same.